# Transcriptome-data-of-human-hypertrophic-cardiomyopathy
Transcriptome analysis of human hypertrophic cardiomyopathy reveals dysregulated mitochondrial function in adults and inhibited cardiac development pathways in children

The epidemiological, etiological and clinical characteristics vary greatly between pediatric (P-HCM) and adult (A-HCM) hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) patients,and the understanding of the heterogeneous pathogenesis mechanisms is insufficient to date. In this study, we aimed to comprehensively assess the respective transcriptome signatures and uncover the essential differences in gene expression patterns among A-HCM and P-HCM. The transcriptome data of adults were collected from public data (GSE89714), and novel pediatric data were first obtained by RNA sequencing from 14 P-HCM and 9 infantile donor heart samples. The activated pathways, including actin filament organization, calcium ion homeostasis, and protein synthesis, were similar in the two subsets of HCM patients. The genes enriched in oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial ATP synthesis pathways were suppressed in A-HCM. The gene expression network of cardiac development and hub genes,including FGFR2, FGF10 and TBX20, were inhibited in P-HCM, which often caused septal defects. In addition, the gene expression level of these hub genes was significantly negatively correlated with interventricular septal thickness in P-HCM. The inhibition of the FGF10/FGFR2/TBX20 pathway could be achieved by cell interactions between cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts. Our study demonstrates the common signatures of myofilament or protein synthesis and calcium ion regulation pathways in HCM. Mitochondrial function is specifically dysregulated in A-HCM, whereas the inhibition of cardiac developing networks typifies P-HCM. These findings not only distinguish the transcriptome characteristics in children and adults with HCM but also reveal the potential mechanism of the higher incidence of septal defects in P-HCM patients.
